# Modder Notes
In making this mod, I generally tried to follow exact implementations of tabletop rules. Where I diverged from those rules, I will do my best to explain my decision making here. Unfortunately, the possibilities within Wrath/Unity, while broad, are not equivalent to the possibilities of the imagination, nor is my skill as a modder!

## Races
- Nearly all races: low-light/darkvision are not a thing in Wrath, so I followed Owlcat's example of just giving any race with those features Keen Senses and calling it good.
- Android: Exceptional Senses (which became Keen Senses per above point) was rolled into Alert, otherwise one ability would be cancelled out. Constructed does not prevent morale bonuses. I don't think this is possible, it is a massive downside in this game specifically, and Owlcat did the same thing with undead in allowing them to still get morale bonuses, so I followed their example. Currently, all androids are bald. I could find no definitive answer regarding whether they have hair or not, but Owlcat's android was bald so I went with that. I may change this later.
- Drow: among their spell-like abilities, only faerie fire is in-game, so that is what they got. Their Poison Use feature does nothing in Wrath, so it was swapped for its alternative racial tait Ancestral Grudge.
- Ganzi: Ganzi oddities are crazy divergent in power level making their implementation challenging. Prehensile tail gives swift action potions - this is equivalent to a mythic ability, but I don't know if that is an indication of how good prehensile tail is or how weaksauce Emergency Potion is. Amorphous Limbs is correctly on a toggle but has no cooldown. Quibble was made to work as a swift action Ill Omen since you can't shoose when to force a re-roll.
- Hobgoblin: Pitboss gives the CMB bonus to all disarm and trip maneuver checks as whips aren't a thing in Wrath.
- Ifrit: slight alterations to SLAs to use spells already in-game.
- Kuru: blood courage just implemented as a bonus to all saves against fear as the actual mechanic is not reproducible.
- Mongrel: Mongrels are technically homebrew as a player race, but since Wrath has them at least mostly integrated as a race, I used their stats plus the mongrelman monster entry for reference on their skill bonuses.
- Nagaji: Low-light Vision (which became Keen Senses per above point) was rolled into Serpent's Sense, otherwise one ability would be cancelled out.
- Rougarou: their Change Shape ability was made unlimited use. Beast Shape I is not great in this game as you can't use weapons, and Skinwalkers' Change Shape ability provides similar bonuses and is unlimited use.
- Samasaran: slight alterations to SLAs to use spells already in-game. Mystic Past Life adds spells to spellbook rather than spell list as the latter is not possible as far as I know. There should be very little effective difference.
- Shabti: slight alterations to SLAs to use spells already in-game. Immortal is useless in Wrath, so I made it complete immunity to aging effects, but those effects are only ever applied in the Midnight Isles DLC as far as I know, so it still does basically nothing. Resist Level Drain got a bump to full immunity since the actual effect of 'immunity until negative levels equal HD' was not possible/very difficult to implement.
- Skinwalker: all bestial forms had their SLAs eliminated as almost none of them were already in-game and would have no effect in Wrath if I made them (for instance, Speak to Animals), and got two of their bestial feature options instead. Choosing which bestial features to give was actually very simple as only around two for each bestial form were viable in Wrath.
- Strix: they get the standard Wrath buff for having wings, no fly speed.
- Svirfneblin: slight alterations to SLAs to use spells already in-game.
- Sylph: slight alterations to SLAs to use spells already in-game.
- Vishkanya: slight alteration to Weapon Familiarity to reflect weapons already in-game.
- Sylph, Undine, Ifrit: their elemental affinity features were implemented as +1 to caster level and +1 to save DC for spells of their respective element. The "treat charisma as 2 higher..." thing is either not possible or unknown to me and this seemed like a fair tradeoff. You don't get the benefit to other class features, but you get a broader impact to spells.

## Archetype
- Collegiate Initiate: Spell Mastery is not a thing in Wrath, so that was eliminated. Ditto for Aura of Good. You do not get to pick a druid/good spell at first level because the spellbook has not been generated yet, so you don't appear to be able to cast anything, presenting you with an empty selection. This may be possible to fix by moving the Halcyon Spell Lore selection after the normal spell selection as is the case with Lore Master secret spell selections, but I don't know how to do this. As it stands, you just get 19 spells instead of 20 and you get the next spell level one class level later for Halcyon Spell Lore. To balance out, I did not rempve the exploit choice at first level rather than giving back the one at fifth level for losing Spell Mastery. You still get the correct number of exploits based on the included features, you just get one at 1st rather than 5th level.
- Hungry Ghost Monk: this is a traditional monk archetype and Owlcat chose the unchained monk for Wrath. Luckily, Owlcat also provided a model for how traditinal monk should work in their system and I used that archetype to determine where the new features should go and what they should replace. This is basically equivalent to the tabletop version with a few features arriving one level earlier. I did not include Punishing Kick replacing Stunning Fist as I wasn't sure how to implement it and, frankly, it seemes relatively unimportant thematically and mechanically for the archetype - I may add it later, but not likely.
- Eldritch Scrapper: their bonus combat feats are not implemented as "floating feats" that can be changed once per day, but rather permanent bonus combat feat selections. This is how the Brawler was implemented in mods for both Kingmaker and Wrath, so I decided to follow suit.

## Sorcerer Bloodlines
- Some bonus spells and bloodline feats were changed when nonexistant or impossible in Wrath. Care was taken to preserve the bloodline's theme and power level when choosing replacements.

## Magus Arcana
- Arcane Deed: added the Swashbuckler deeds that still do anything considering the massive nerf errata to the ability. If I ever figure out toggles, I may go back and do a pre-errata version that can give you all the possible deeds.
